Summary
Our chosen data that we used for our final project was the provided country,
population, and endangered species data. These datasets gave us information to about
194 countries. The country data showcases the countries’ UN Region, UN Sub-Region,
and area in square kilometers. The population data, on the other hand, contained the
population of the countries throughout the years. Lastly, the endangered species data
were able to tell us the amount of endangered species for each country’s plants, fish,
birds, and animals. Our code includes two user inputs, one being the country input and
the other being a selection of what type of data they would like the program to execute.
First, the user is asked to choose a country that is available in our datasets. If the user
were to input a country that was not included in our provided data, the program asks the
user to input another country. We used a validation function to make sure that the user
input is in our country list. For our second input, we have given the user three choices:
calculate the minimum, maximum, and mean data for the country’s population, display a
plotted data of the country’s population through the years, or access the country’s
endangered species information.
Based on the documents provided for us, we were required to import the three
csv files. To import the csv files, we used an imported module named pandas and then
alternated it to an array. We extracted data from the csv files by creating a list of the
countries and acquiring its position by using the index function. We kept the position of
the country by assigning it to a variable called ‘position’. This position is used
throughout the code to acquire the countries’ information on the three different csv files.
By doing this, we were able to avoid hard coding anything and were able to access the
csv file directly. Our group also made sure that we used the correct conventions to
name our variable, functions, and class. The program outputs two visual representative
plots and diagrams that we diligently labeled and titled. The making of the user interface
was entirely important as it requires clarity and simplicity for the user to completely
understand and fully interact with the program. One of the requirements was to make
two user-defined functions. We are able to meet this requirement by creating a
validation function for the two user inputs. We were able to achieve a user friendly
program by providing easy and clear instructions to the user.
